---
permalink: /W00/
---
[HOME](../)

<br>
# Top 10 List of Week 00

1. [What is operating system?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_system)<br>
An operating system (OS) is system software that manages computer hardware, 
software resources, and provides common services for computer programs.
Time-sharing operating systems schedule tasks for efficient use of the system and may also include 
accounting software for cost allocation of processor time, mass storage, printing, and other resources.
For hardware functions such as input and output and memory allocation, the operating system acts as 
an intermediary between programs and the computer hardware, although the application code is usually 
executed directly by the hardware and frequently makes system calls to an OS function or is interrupted by it. 

2. [Block diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block_diagram#:~:text=A%20block%20diagram%20is%20a,design%2C%20and%20process%20flow%20diagrams.)<br>
A block diagram is a diagram of a system in which the principal parts or functions are represented by blocks connected by lines that show 
the relationships of the blocks.[1] They are heavily used in engineering in hardware design, electronic design, software design, and process flow diagrams.
Block diagrams are typically used for higher level, less detailed descriptions that are intended to clarify overall concepts 
without concern for the details of implementation. Contrast this with the schematic diagrams and layout diagrams used in electrical engineering, 
which show the implementation details of electrical components and physical construction.

3. [What is an APIC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Programmable_Interrupt_Controller#:~:text=In%20computing%2C%20Intel's%20Advanced,a%20family%20of%20interrupt%20controllers.&text=The%20APIC%20is%20a%20split,APIC%20on%20a%20system%20bus.)<br>
In computing, Intel's Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC) is a family of interrupt controllers. As its name suggests, 
the APIC is more advanced than Intel's 8259 Programmable Interrupt Controller (PIC), particularly enabling the construction of multiprocessor systems. 
It is one of several architectural designs intended to solve interrupt routing efficiency issues in multiprocessor computer systems.

4. [Interrupt handler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interrupt_handler)<br>
In computer systems programming, an interrupt handler, also known as an interrupt service routine or ISR, is a special block of code associated with a specific interrupt condition. 
Interrupt handlers are initiated by hardware interrupts, software interrupt instructions, or software exceptions, and are used for implementing device drivers or transitions between protected modes of operation, such as system calls.
The traditional form of interrupt handler is the hardware interrupt handler. Hardware interrupts arise from electrical conditions or low-level protocols implemented in digital logic, are usually dispatched via a hard-coded table of interrupt vectors, asynchronously to the normal execution stream (as interrupt masking levels permit), often using a separate stack, and automatically entering into a different execution context (privilege level) for the duration of the interrupt handler's execution. 
In general, hardware interrupts and their handlers are used to handle high-priority conditions that require the interruption of the current code the processor is executing.

5. [Von-Neumann Model](https://www.javatpoint.com/von-neumann-model#:~:text=It%20consisted%20of%20a%20Control,in%20most%20computers%20produced%20today.)<br>
Von-Neumann proposed his computer architecture design in 1945 which was later known as Von-Neumann Architecture. 
It consisted of a Control Unit, Arithmetic, and Logical Memory Unit (ALU), Registers and Inputs/Outputs.
Von Neumann architecture is based on the stored-program computer concept, where instruction data and program data are stored in the same memory. 
This design is still used in most computers produced today.

6. [Direct memory access](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Direct_memory_access)<br>
Direct memory access (DMA) is a feature of computer systems that allows certain hardware subsystems to access main system memory (random-access memory) independent of the central processing unit (CPU). Without DMA, when the CPU is using programmed input/output, it is typically fully occupied for the entire duration of the read or write operation, and is thus unavailable to perform other work. With DMA, the CPU first initiates the transfer, 
then it does other operations while the transfer is in progress, and it finally receives an interrupt from the DMA controller (DMAC) when the operation is done. 

7. [Memory-mapped I/O](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memory-mapped_I/O)<br>
Memory-mapped I/O (MMIO) and port-mapped I/O (PMIO) (which is also called isolated I/O are two complementary methods of performing input/output (I/O) between the central processing unit (CPU) and peripheral devices in a computer. 
An alternative approach is using dedicated I/O processors, commonly known as channels on mainframe computers, which execute their own instructions.

8. [DDR SDRAM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DDR_SDRAM)<br>
Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic Random-Access Memory, officially abbreviated as DDR SDRAM, is a double data rate (DDR) synchronous dynamic random-access memory (SDRAM) class of memory integrated circuits used in computers. 
DDR SDRAM, also retroactively called DDR1 SDRAM, has been superseded by DDR2 SDRAM, DDR3 SDRAM, and DDR4 SDRAM, and soon will be superseded by DDR5 SDRAM. 
None of its successors are forward or backward compatible with DDR1 SDRAM, meaning DDR2, DDR3, DDR4 and DDR5 memory modules will not work in DDR1-equipped motherboards, and vice versa.

9. [File system](https://www.techopedia.com/definition/5510/file-system#:~:text=A%20file%20system%20is%20a,abstract%20to%20a%20human%20user.)<br>
A file system is a process that manages how and where data on a storage disk, typically a hard disk drive (HDD), is stored, accessed and managed. 
It is a logical disk component that manages a disk's internal operations as it relates to a computer and is abstract to a human user.

10. [Virtual memory](https://www.cbronline.com/what-is/what-is-virtual-memory-4929986/#:~:text=Virtual%20memory%20is%20a%20feature,space%20on%20the%20hard%20disk.)<br>
Virtual memory is a feature of an operating system that enables a computer to be able to compensate shortages of physical memory by transferring pages of data from random access memory to disk storage.
This process is done temporarily and is designed to work as a combination of RAM and space on the hard disk.
This means that when RAM runs low, virtual memory can move data from it to a space called a paging file. This process allows for RAM to be freed up so that a computer can complete the task.
